>> Brian Holt: Okay, finally,
let's go write our node server.
>> Brian Holt: So because this is in
babble, we can use import syntax.
So we're gonna say import
express from express.
>> Brian Holt: And
the other thing you're gonna call this is,
>> Brian Holt: Where do I put this?
And make a new directory
here inside of this folder.
Not inside the source and called server,
because you generally want to keep your
front end and back end code separate,
and then I'm just going to
call this index touch as.
>> Brian Holt: So
import express from express,
import react from react,
import renderToString
from react-don/server,
import Server location
from at each router.
Import fs which is a file system,
from fs to node module and
import app from /src/App.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, first thing is you
wanna identify what port this is gonna
run on, so we're gonna say
const PORT = process.env.PORT.
So you can either have the port set
an an environmental variable, and
if they don't set anything,
just set it to 3000.
Just any random number
above 1000 will work.
Okay, we're going to say
const html = fs.readFileSync.
Dist/index.html.tostring, so
this is going to go read
the output html right,
so that we could use that in our server
side rendering
>> Brian Holt: Then
you're gonna split it into two parts,
right?
So const parts = split.
Well, let's go take a look at this first.
If I go into my index.html,
where do I want my markup to actually go?
We want it to go here in route, right?
So what I'm gonna do is kind of be
a little tricky, because I just loaded
this whole thing as a string and
I'm going to split on not rendered, right.
So the first part of it is
going to be all of this, right.
And the second part of it will be all of
this, then I'll put my mark up here, and
then I'll put the first part first,
the rendered mark up, and
then the second part.
Does that make sense?
So I'm gonna say html.split not rendered.
>> Brian Holt: So, now I'm gonna have
an array of two parts, the first part and
the second part.
>> Brian Holt: You could do this with
something like EJS, or Handlebars, or
you could even do it with React
itself to render this together.
This is really simple, and I think this
is not a bad way of doing it either.
I'm going to say const app = express,
to start a new express server,
I'm gonna say app.use/ dist
as express.static dist.
So, this is gonna statically serve
everything in the dist directory, right?
So, the HTML, CSS, JavaScript images,
all that is gonna come
from the dist directory.
Here I'm gonna say app.use and
then I'm gonna give it
a middleware to run every single
time that it gets requested, okay?
Here I'm gonna say const
reactMarkup = ServerLocation.
So this is from Reach Router to
do the server site rendering.
url =rec.url.
So, if someone requests details/200,
that'll be the URL coming
in from express and
then you'll put app inside of that and
then down here you're gonna say res.send.
I'm going to do three parts here.
>> Brian Holt: You could say parts 0 plus
render to string react markup.
+ parts[1], right?
First part of the HTML, rendered markup,
second part of the HTML.
And then here, you're gonna say res.end();
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
then you'll say console.log.
Listening on PORT and
say app.listen(PORT).
>> Brian Holt: So if you don't know
too much about the nodes part of that,
that's totally fine.
There's plenty of courses
on here about that but
are there any questions about
the React portions of this?
This is kind of the core part of
how to get this to work with react.
You render it on the server, and
you're gonna send it down to
the client as complete markup.
So let's give a shot, but
you're gonna need two packages to do this.
You're gonna need express,
you're gonna say npm install.
Express and
then you're also gonna need @babel/node.
So this one is a common js framework and
this one is going to allow you to run all
your node code through Babel as well.
So
>> Brian Holt: Can
delete that as well from that .js,
that's not super important.
One more thing to fix as
well in package.json,
remember we switch from client app
to now being the browser entry.
So we have to also do build,
not build but in index.html
that's what it is.
Here instead of being client app,
we're going to point this out ClientApp.
Instead of it being app,
we're going to point it at ClientApp.
>> Brian Holt: Now if we start and
stop the server again,
pm run start, now this should work.
>> Brian Holt: Okay so
now all the JavaScript is working as well.
>> Brian Holt: But
the point that I wanted to bring up here,
if I look at this page again
here in My view source.
It's still loading like all
the correct code here as well right?
And so
it's still doing service side rendering.
It's doing the appropriate one per route
because each router is taking in that
url and rendering the correct page Right?
>> Brian Holt: So we get to define all
of our routes inside of the browser
client-side renderer, but notice still
able to use all the same routes,
which is cool.